>> Jen Kramer: All right, so
that's pretty much every thing
that can go on with the parent.
So, the flex container.
Now, we're gonna look at
the individual flex items, okay?
Or the LIs.
And most of the things that
have to do with the LIs.
So what we've seen with the flex
container, the UL in this case,
has to do with distributing
those items in space.
What order are they gonna go in broadly,
one to six or six to one.
How are the space gonna be
distributed between those boxes?
How tall are they gonna be?
That type of thing, right?
Okay, what happens when
we go to our flex items,
it has more to do with ordering and
how wide they are, okay?
Ordering and how wide they are.
And also how they're gonna change
their size over dimensions.
That's the other part of it.
Okay, so [COUGH] I'm gonna add
the following class to the flex2.
So just to remind you again, in our HTML,
some of my lis have a class
of flex1 Some of my lis,
notably number three and
number five, have a class of flex2.
What I'm going to do here
is I'm going to take flex2,
I'm gonna give it a border and probably
a little fatter than that on the screen,
so you can see it a little bit better.
And then I can type in a number and
that's going to reorder these in space.
Actually, I will just copy most of that.
Oops, copy most of that and
I'm gonna drop that here into my CSS.
I'm gonna set this up to be five pixels.
I'll make it dashed instead,
make it a little different than
the dotted thing I had earlier.
And I'm gonna say for my order,
I'm gonna give it the number two.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
order is a number.
>> Jen Kramer: It
can be any number you want, all right?
And if you go on ahead and save that and
then refresh the page.
>> Jen Kramer: You'll
see that what we have now is number three
and number five have them pulled out.
The way it's on the screen right now looks
like they're displayed on their own row.
But remember that it sort of
depends on how wide the pages,
now they're not on the same row, okay?
So don't make that assumption.
>> Jen Kramer: There
they are not on the same row.
By default everybody's order
property has a value of one.
So, by saying two, we've pulled them out
of order, and we stick them at the end.
And because I put in on the class, both of
them are on the end in the order that they
were before, three and then five.
Make sense?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay,
we're almost done with this and
then you get a quiz.
Okay, so then the next things
we're gonna talk about are what's
called flex basis, flex grow,
and flex shrink, okay?
Flex basis, flex grow, flex shrink and
these are often combined if
you're taking a look at your little
cheat sheet and you take a look down
at the children items down here in
the bottom of your cheat sheet.
You'll see that we are flex grow, flex
shrink, flex basis and then you'll notice
that we have a property called flex, which
is short hand for those three things.
So if you've never seen.
Jenna, I have no idea what
you are talking about.
Flex grow, flex shrink, flex basis.
I've never seen it.
That's because most people don't usually
write it, they usually write just flex.
The word flex and
have these properties associated with it.
So the first one I wanna talk about
though is flex basis because this is
the one that you can kinda
understand by itself.
Grow and shrink get a little weird.
Flex basis is width, is width.
And I put it in quotes because
the actual width property,
width colon some number, you can
think of as an absolute number, okay?
So if your width is 200 pixels,
it's 200 pixels,
no matter where you
are it's always 200 pixels.
But also if your width is 25%, it's always
25% whatever screen you
happen to be looking at.
With flex basis,
you can think of this as sorta 25%, okay?
Because it's flexible.
So what you basically
say to Flexbox is this.
Hey, Flexbox, please try to get
as close to 25% as possible, but
I know you got a factor in like
there's maybe some margin, or
padding, or
other weirdness going on in here.
So if you don't get to quite 25% and
it's actually more like 27%, or
maybe it's 30%, or whatever it
happens to be, that's okay, all right?
So it's truly a relative sort of number.
So that's how I've explained it here.
And we can go on ahead, and put that in.
>> Jen Kramer: In our style sheet.
So here again on flex2,
is that what I said?
Flex2, yeah, flex2.
We can go ahead and
add a property of flex-basis.
And then that could be followed by
a number, it could be in pixels, but
probably not the best thing in the world.
Probably a better way to do it
is in something like percent or
in the view port units,
view port height, view port width,
that kind of thing,
are probably the better units to choose.
So let's just go in ahead and
say that it's going to be 25%,
since I keep saying that.
[COUGH] And if we refresh our page.
Then you'll see that here's
flex box trying to set these
up to be 25% wide, okay?
But sometimes the screen is too big.
And actually we're,
you should be looking at just those two
blue ones down there on the bottom, okay?
So because I didn't put on the LIs, so
not all of these items are gonna be 25%.
But if you watch the two blue dotted ones
that are currently at the bottom row,
they should be taking up about
half of the screen, right?
About 50%.
So if you watch they
are kinda close to that,
see how they're kinda close to that?
>> Jen Kramer: You
can imagine that they're taking up about
50% but not always, not perfectly, okay?
Make sense?
Okay, so never use the width
property on your flex items,
do not use the width
you're gonna use flex basis, okay?
Flex basis.
So when we code our grid
system later on today,
we're gonna do it with flex
basis as our quote width.
We're never gonna use the width property.
>> Jen Kramer: All right, and
then the last two numbers here, and I'm
gonna switch over to just plain old flex,
are the grow and the shrink properties.
So if you write this out as flex 0125,
this is a fairly
typical number that you would see for
the flex property.
The first number is the grow property.
The second number is the shrink property.
And the third number is your flex basis.
So this is how it's written in short hand.
And the grow and the shrink have to
do with how fast a box expands or
how fast it shrinks in space.
So right now all of our
boxes are growing and
shrinking at exactly the same rate
relative to each other, right?
So if we were to say we'd
like these boxes here on
flex2 to grow twice as
fast as other boxes,
let's say that we say a flex2, all right?
So the grow property becomes 2.
Grow these twice as fast.
>> Jen Kramer: If we were to do that and
refresh our page,
look at our little boxes here.
See how they sort of jumped really wide?
>> Jen Kramer: Now they're
giant.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: So that's would grow and
shrink typically do.
Usually, when I'm looking at people's
grid systems built with Flex box,
they aren't really making use of
the grow of the shrink properties.
These tend to be more useful if you're
using Flex box in the appropriate manner.
Say, like you have a bunch of
images coming off of your server,
you don’t know how many you’re gonna have.
You wanna display them
on a page in a grid,
okay?
>> Jen Kramer: All right, so
now that you’re totally numb and you’ve
gone through all of these properties,
do we have any questions
on the properties so
far that we've looked at in
isolation in this exciting screen.